# Pixogram App

# Training Notes 
## Angular LifeCycle hooks.
1. lifecycle starts from initiation and ends when distroyed
2. divided into multiple phases
3. Each of those interface provides a method, this method is known as life-cycle hook method. 
4. hook method is a callback method, that means the method gets invoked automatically when that phase occurs.
## pipes
1. pipes allow to trasform the data to something else for presentation purpose.
2. Data returned from pipe is not rendered as html, it is a literal text.
## SERVER SIDE SCRIPTS
1. server side scripts get traslated and executed on server, output of that execution is then rendered into a dynamic html, which is sent to client as response.
2. For any multitier framework, every layer must have a container. containers are responsible for handling all the low level activities related to that layer, and also provides a location to hold the elements of that layer.
## Servlet
1. Redirect : - It is a process, which terminates the existing exist cycle, and issues a new request, thats why data of the previous request will not available going ahead.
2. Forward: - forward represents carrying the request to the next resource along with data of original request.
# Beans & Services
1. Always create services using interface design pattern.
2. IOC : - inversion of control is outsourcing the creation and management of objects to a bean factory
3. Bean : - controller managed java objects are known as java objects.
4. Two types of dependency injection in xml :
    - constructor based dependencies.
    - setter based dependencies.
    - The literal values are supposed to be placed in a separate 
      repository, defined by properties file.
      `<context:property-placeholder location="message.repo.properties/>`
    - To use the property :- `${key}`
4. object created by bean factory is by default of singleton scope.
    - singleton : - only one instance is created.
    - whenever we demand, an object from spring context, it returns the same instance everytime.
    - spring context doesnt maintain lifecycles for prototype object.
5. LifeCycle hook methods
    - can have any name
    - can have any access modifier
    - can return value
    - cannot have parameters.    

6. All the classes under the scanning path decorated with `@Component` annotation is automatically used by spring context to manage their beans.
7. Dependency injections are done by using `@Autowired` annotation. It is not mandatory for constructor.
8.  Every field, class and method decorated with `@Autowired` gets injected with dependency right after object creation, irrespective of their access modifier.
## Spring MVC
  1. spring mvc uses front construction architecture to implement mvc pattern.
  2. Every request is intecepted by an inbuilt servelet known as dispatcher servlet, which
  acts as front controller.
  3. the action method is based on url.
  4. same url cannot be mapped to multiple methods, but multiple urls can be mapped to same method.
  5. The link urls by default takes the relative url
  6. urls must always be defined in absolute relation.
### HIBERANATE VALIDATOR
  1. It is always recommeneded to use java standard validation annototions instead of hibernate annotations, to prevent the vendor locking. The hibernate implementation will automatically work behind the scenes.
### spring security starter
  1. As soon as security is added in the dependency, it automatically adds security filter and provides a default credentials,
  whose username is "user", and password is autogenerated, which is shown on console.
  2. As REST requests are stateless, every request is considered as stateless, thus for secured resources(endpoint), everytime
  the verified basic authentication token is required to be associated.
 ### spring cloud proxy
 1. feign client replaces the urls with method calls, the url management is oursourced to a proxy interface.
 2. A Discovery service will be a spring boot application having a dependency of depedency server having added.
 Eureks discovery service is a naming server, which registers all micro services and make them accesssible by their name.
 
